Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
Ans: create the data structure once, and it can be used again and again easily. ... It
is the same intuitions that led to the rise of data structures and algorithms to arrange and process the data in
the memory for efficient storage, access and processing.
What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Ans: Traversing, Searching, Inserting, Deleting, Sorting, Merging
List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
what is an Array?
Ans:An array is a container object that holds a fixed number of values of a single type.
what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
what is LinkedList?
How is an Array different from Linked List?
Ans: Array is Simple fixed sized
 Arraylist isDynamic sized array
what is queue?
Ans:A queue is designed to have elements inserted at the end of the queue,
and elements removed from the beginning of the queue
what is stack?
Ans:The static keyword in Java means that the variable or function is shared between all instances of that
class as it belongs to the type, not the actual objects themselves.
what is FIFO and LIFO?
Ans: First in First out and last in first out.
what is the order of complexity?
Ans: Big O
what is the best case to search an element from an array?
Ans: binary search.
what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
Ans:linear search
what is tree in data structure?
Ans
what is graph in data structure?
what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
How HashMap works in java?
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
What is difference between an array and a linked list?
What is DFS and BFS?
What is Recursion?
What are linear and non linear data Structures?
What is Big-(O)-notation?
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.
